cran-comments.md, before:

## Resubmission

First attempt succeeded in compiling in Windows and Fedora Linux:
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-8d55df00b25e430bb61ec2a799aaeb02
* Platform: Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1, R-devel, 32/64 bit
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-a3874ec0081d4f2e8fb6869d47b722e2
* Platform: Fedora Linux, R-devel, clang, gfortran
But had an error on the Ubuntu compilation
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-5838b23129044df8ae0cf40ed870d357
* Platform: Ubuntu Linux 16.04 LTS, R-release, GCC
  + checking package dependencies ... ERROR
  + Package suggested but not available: ‘iemisc’

Revision: Since no functionality from the iemisc package is used it
was removed as a suggest.

## Test environments
* local OS X install, R 3.6.1
* Windows (using devtools::check_win_devel, platform: x86_64-w64-mingw32 (64-bit), R version 4.0.0 alpha (2020-03-26 r78078)

## R CMD check results

* From Local OSX check:
  + 0 errors ✓ | 0 warnings ✓ | 1 note x
  + R CMD check succeeded

  + NOTE: Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
    ‘README.Rmd’ ‘cran-comments.md’ ‘hydraulics_0.1.0.pdf’

* From Windows check:
	+ 0 errors, 0 warnings, 2 notes
	+ Possibly mis-spelled words in DESCRIPTION: Weisbach (9:60) (false-positive)
	+ Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
	'README.Rmd' 'cran-comments.md' 'hydraulics_0.1.0.pdf'

## Downstream dependencies

None.

Commit message:

Replace print statements with message and stop.

cran-comments.md, after:

## Resubmission
Comments received on May 1, 2020 inluded:
* Please write references in the description of the DESCRIPTION file in the form
  + authors (year) <doi:...>
  + authors (year) <arXiv:...>
  + authors (year, ISBN:...)
  + or if those are not available: authors (year) <https:...>
  + with no space after 'doi:', 'arXiv:', 'https:' and angle brackets for auto-linking.
  + (If you want to add a title as well please put it in quotes: "Title")
* You write information messages to the console that cannot be easily
suppressed. Instead of print()/cat() rather use 
  + message()/warning() or 
  + if(verbose)cat(..) 
  + (or maybe stop()) if you really have to write text to the console. (except for print, summary, interactive functions)

Revision: 
* All cat statements have been replaced by message or stop.
* Reference to Finnemore and Franzini includes ISBN in format suggested
* R CMD check succeeded 0 errors ✓ | 0 warnings ✓ | 0 notes ✓

## Resubmission

First attempt succeeded in compiling in Windows and Fedora Linux:
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-8d55df00b25e430bb61ec2a799aaeb02
* Platform: Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1, R-devel, 32/64 bit
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-a3874ec0081d4f2e8fb6869d47b722e2
* Platform: Fedora Linux, R-devel, clang, gfortran
But had an error on the Ubuntu compilation
* Build ID: hydraulics_0.1.0.tar.gz-5838b23129044df8ae0cf40ed870d357
* Platform: Ubuntu Linux 16.04 LTS, R-release, GCC
  + checking package dependencies ... ERROR
  + Package suggested but not available: ‘iemisc’

Revision: Since no functionality from the iemisc package is used it
was removed as a suggest.

## Test environments
* local OS X install, R 3.6.1
* Windows (using devtools::check_win_devel, platform: x86_64-w64-mingw32 (64-bit), R version 4.0.0 alpha (2020-03-26 r78078)

## R CMD check results

* From Local OSX check:
  + 0 errors ✓ | 0 warnings ✓ | 1 note x
  + R CMD check succeeded

  + NOTE: Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
    ‘README.Rmd’ ‘cran-comments.md’ ‘hydraulics_0.1.0.pdf’

* From Windows check:
	+ 0 errors, 0 warnings, 2 notes
	+ Possibly mis-spelled words in DESCRIPTION: Weisbach (9:60) (false-positive)
	+ Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
	'README.Rmd' 'cran-comments.md' 'hydraulics_0.1.0.pdf'

## Downstream dependencies

None.
